this assignment can be based in your own research. the most common way that students work with this assignment is to run an experiment. 

some kind of data analysis. 

-- some people work specifically on a more elaborate kind of data analysis (like MRI, kinesiology)
-- Could you do it on a Distributed creativity analysis? using commit messages? using something else?


the proposal: 1/2-to-1 page proposal:
  - i work in the area of ___. in my lab i work on ___. i would like to run an experiment that looks at ___ dataset. and I would like to understand ___. 
Due December 6, 2018

ask 

I work in the areas of electroacoustic music, and distributed creativity, and my PhD research and artistic work 
has focused on exploring uses of distributed version control systems, like git, for research-creation (or practice-based research). I have been expressing this research in 
two laboratories on campus: the Alice Lab for Computational Worldmaking, led by Dr. Graham Wakefield, where I have  
primarily focused on developing git-based collaborative code editing tools for the browser and VR, towards the goals of 
affording real-time improvisation and experimentation; and in the Distributed Performance and Sensorial Immersion (Dispersion) Lab, led by my supervisor
Dr. Doug Van Nort, where, more recently I have been writing a composition for a laptop ensemble which looks at the 
performative act of working with git. Temporarily titled 'gitShow', the piece will involve 7 composers familiar with software design, with each tasked with developing a 
digital musical instrument, a score, and a recording of an improvisation, and committing these to a feature branch over the span of one week. Following the end of this phase, each branch is 
reassigned to another composer for another week, where they must perform the score, then commit new changes to the instrument along with a new score and 
recorded improvisation. Rules are currently being drafted for ways in which the composers must interact with and contribute to the commit history.

Git exposes both qualitative and quantitative data about individual and collective creative activity and the 
sentiments and intentions expressed within the commit message history. Since my gitShow composition will run from November to December, I would like to run an experiment
which analyzes repository data from the first and second (and maybe 3rd) phases. I will admit that I am as yet unsure of specifically what data to analyze, although one detail I would like to understand
is the degree to which the composers take to constrain structural changes to their work in subsequent phases, and whether this may be detected in the commit history, the code, the score, the improvisation, etc. 
One could compare the degree to which a instrument's parameters are exposed to 
manual control (made explicit in a graphic user interface, for example), in a given phase, against the amount of code churn between that phase and the next; or that phase and the last phase. 
I will also state an interest in having the results of this study feed back into the composition, perhaps as a method of determining which instrument feature branch gets assigned to which composer in a subsequent phase. 

One contribution to research that interests me is to develop research tools for studying 
distributed creativity in electroacoustic music, drawing on the work of Gibson (1979), (Sawyer (2009), Born (2005), Haworth (2015), Gell (2015), Software Repository Mining (MSR), Heidegger (2012, 2013), and Simondon (2017).



GitShow (working title), draws on Gell's extension of Husserl's protention-retention model of lived time to the time scale encompassin an artist's oeuvre, 
which as I've noted in my own work, he chooses to represent as either a force directed graph, 
or a directed acyclic graph, each of which are often used to represent the author commit history in a git repository. 

